Fox Business
Personal Finance
Economy
Markets
Watchlist
Lifestyle
Real Estate
Tech
Video
Podcasts
More
Expand / Collapse search
Login
Watch TV
Product Recalls Published October 16, 2025 3:53pm EDT
FDA expands health warning to more cinnamon products over lead levels
HAETAE-brand and Roshni-brand ground cinnamon join growing list of recalled products
Facebook
Twitter
Comments
Print
Email
Daniella Genovese By Daniella Genovese FOXBusiness

FDA chief explains how agency is 'rewriting the food pyramid'
FDA commissioner Dr. Marty Makary outlines the issues associated with petroleum-based food dyes and the 'bigger issue' the agency aims to tackle on 'The Evening Edit.'

Federal health officials added more ground cinnamon brands to its health alert after detecting elevated levels of lead in the product. 

The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) said in its latest update last week that HAETAE-brand and Roshni-brand ground cinnamon are joining a growing list of products that are considered unsafe due to elevated lead levels. 

The FDA has continued to update its list of recalled cinnamon brands, now totaling 16, since issuing its original health alert in July. In its latest update on Oct. 10, the FDA said it continues to analyze cinnamon and review sample results from state partners that have been testing ground cinnamon at retail for elevated lead levels. 

SOME POPULAR PROTEIN POWDERS CONTAMINATED WITH UNSAFE AMOUNTS OF LEAD, STUDY REVEALS

The agency said it will continue to update its public health alert as necessary if additional products are found to contain unsafe levels of lead.

A spoon full of ground cinnamon.
An image of ground cinnamon. (iStock)

The FDA is advising consumers to throw away any of the cinnamon products listed in the health alert.  

STUDY OF LEAD LEVELS IN MAJOR CINNAMON BRANDS SHOWS 'TROUBLING' RESULTS

For the products listed, the FDA has recommended that the firms voluntarily recall their respective products, except for the HAETAE-brand cinnamon. The FDA said it wasn't able to reach distributor Haitai Inc. USA to share its findings and recommend that the company initiate a recall.

GROUND CINNAMON RECALL EXPANDED FOLLOWING DISCOVERY OF 'ELEVATED LEVELS OF LEAD'

The FDA concluded during its assessment that consuming any of the products listed could contribute to elevated levels of lead in the blood. It also warned being exposed to elevated levels of lead could contribute to adverse health effects, particularly for those that may already have elevated blood lead levels from other exposures to lead.


The potential for adverse health effects from consuming food contaminated with lead varies depending on the level of lead in the food, as well as length, amount and frequency of exposure. Exposures to different sources of lead and someone's age are also factors.

GET FOX BUSINESS ON THE GO BY CLICKING HERE

Those who are younger "are particularly vulnerable to the potential harmful effects from lead exposure" because of their smaller body sizes and rapid metabolism and growth, the FDA said. High levels of exposure to lead in utero, infancy and early childhood specifically can lead to neurological effects such as learning disabilities, behavior difficulties and lowered IQ, federal health officials continued.

Last year, hundreds of lead poisoning cases were traced to recalled applesauce products, underscoring the serious risks associated with contaminated food.

Recalled applesauce packets
Recalled applesauce pouches that sickened more than 400 children across 44 states. (The United States Food and Drug Administration / Fox News)

WanaBana LLC initiated a recall of its WanaBana, Schnucks or Weis-brand apple cinnamon pouches – manufactured by Ecuador-based Austrofood – for elevated lead levels last fall after four children in North Carolina had "elevated blood lead levels, indicating potential acute lead toxicity," according to federal health officials. 

U.S. Stock Market Quotes
Quotes displayed in real-time


Quote Lookup

Fox News First
Arrives Weekly
Get Our Newsletter
Get a brief on the top business stories of the week, plus CEO interviews, market updates, tech and money news that matters to you.

Enter email address
Subscribe
By clicking subscribe, you agree to the Fox News Privacy Policy and Terms of Use, and agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News. You understand that you can opt-out at any time.

Personal Finance
Mortgages
Student Loans
Credit Cards
Personal Loans
Savings
Insurance
401k
Retirement
Tax Planning
Economy
Government Spending
Money & Policy
Small Business
Markets
Stocks
US Markets
Cryptocurrency
Futures & Commodities
Bonds
ETFs
Business Leaders
Industries
Retail
Pre-Markets
Mutual Funds
Watchlist
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Rich & Famous
Travel
Cars
Airplanes
Food & Drinks
Arts
Real Estate
Personal
Commercial
Luxury Properties
Tech
Digital
Social Media
Gadgets
Business Tech
Healthcare Tech
Future Tech
AI
Space
Sports
NFL
NBA
MLB
NASCAR
Boxing
Soccer
Golf
Tennis
Opinion
Video
About
Channel Finder
Jobs
Terms of Use
Updated Privacy Policy
FAQ
Media Relations
Corporate Information
Closed Captioning Policy
Accessibility Statement
Fox News
Fox Nation
Fox Business Go
Apps & Products
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Flipboard
LinkedIn
RSS
Newsletter
Spotify
iHeartRadio
Fox Business
Updated Terms of UseNew Privacy PolicyYour Privacy ChoicesHelpClosed Captioning Policy
Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by Factset. Powered and implemented by FactSet Digital Solutions.  Legal Statement.

This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2025 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. FAQ - New Privacy Policy
