Controversial UK oil field publishes full scale of climate impact
3 days ago

Share

Save
Esme StallardClimate and science reporter
Getty Images An oil platform seen from below stands in the North Sea, the sun is setting and the moon can be seen. Lights are on across the platform which stands on stilts with cranes protrudingGetty Images
The UK's largest undeveloped oil field has revealed the full scale of its environmental impact, should it gain approval by the government.

Developers of the Rosebank oil field said nearly 250 million tonnes of planet warming gas would be released from using oil products from the field.

The amount would vary each year, but by comparison the UK's annual emissions in 2024 were 371 million tonnes.

The field's developer said its emissions were "not significant" considering the UK's international climate commitments.

But opponents called it an "admission of the vast climate change damage" that the project will cause.

Rosebank is an oil and gas field which lies about 80 miles north-west of Shetland and is one of the largest undeveloped discoveries of fossil fuels in UK waters.

It is said to contain up to 300 million barrels of oil and some gas, and is owned by Norwegian energy giant Equinor and British firm Ithaca Energy.

The field was originally approved in 2023, but in January a court ruled that a more detailed assessment of the field's environmental impact was required, taking into account the effect on the climate of burning any fossil fuels extracted from it.

A public consultation has now been opened, and will run until 20th November 2025.

The Energy Secretary will then decide whether to support granting consent for the project.

Greenpeace UK's senior climate campaigner, Paul Morozzo, said the new figures were: "a brazen admission ... of the vast climate damage that would be caused from burning Rosebank's oil and gas."

What is Rosebank and why is it so controversial?
New oil and gas field consent was unlawful - judge
Until recently such projects were only required to consider the impact on the environment from extracting the fossil fuels.

But in June last year the Supreme Court ruled that authorities must take account of the impact from also using the products, after a woman in Surrey challenged the development of her local gas project.

Key oil project must count full climate impact - court
This ruling was then used in a further challenge to the Rosebank oil field by environmental campaigners Uplift and Greenpeace - which was subsequently successful in January.

Equinor was required to recalculate the "full impact" of the field and it now estimates that it will contribute an additional 249 million tonnes of the planet warming gas CO2 over the next 25 years.

This is more than 50 times greater than the original figure of 4.5 million tonnes it gave from extracting the oil and gas.

Publishing their figures, Equinor said: "The Assessment concludes that, whilst GHG emissions from the Rosebank Development are likely to occur, their magnitude is not significant when viewed in the context of international climate commitments."

But, it went on to add that if global temperature rises were not kept below 2C "the Rosebank Development, could significantly impact the climate due to its high sensitivity and cumulative effects".

Tessa Khan, executive director of environmental campaign group Uplift, said Rosebank would be the test of the government's credibility on climate change.

"This enormous oil field is not consistent with the UK's climate commitments. The world already has so much more oil than is safe to burn," she said.

The UK has a target to produce no additional emissions by 2050 and Energy Secretary Ed Miliband has been vocal about the need to move away from fossil fuels.

On Tuesday, he told an industry conference that the UK's dependence on fossil fuels was its "Achilles' heel" and argued clean power was the only way to reduce bills.

The fossil fuels for the Rosebank field are not guaranteed to be used in the UK but would be sold on the international market.

As such the project is unlikely to have an impact on lowering gas prices. The UK's independent climate advisors said in 2022 that any more domestic oil and gas extraction would have "at most, a marginal effect on prices".

But Arne Gurtner, Equinor's senior vice president for the UK, has previously said that: "If the UK needs Rosebank oil, it will go to the UK through open market mechanisms."

A simple guide to climate change
Four ways climate change worsens extreme weather
What you can do to reduce carbon emissions
Thin, green banner promoting the Future Earth newsletter with text saying, “The world’s biggest climate news in your inbox every week”. There is also a graphic of an iceberg overlaid with a green circular pattern.
Sign up for our Future Earth newsletter to keep up with the latest climate and environment stories with the BBC's Justin Rowlatt. Outside the UK? Sign up to our international newsletter here.

Rosebank
Effects of global warming
North Sea oil and gas
Climate
Related
Leaders grapple with the politics of Rosebank
Guests evacuated from major hotel blaze
More from the BBC
11 hrs ago
The image shows a landscape during either sunrise or sunset in Jersey. A low sun casts a warm golden glow across a misty field, creating a soft and peaceful atmosphere. In the foreground, there are bushes and branches, while trees line the background.
Experts urge business to prioritise sustainability
Finance bosses call for urgent action to embed environmental responsibility in corporate strategy.

23 hrs ago
 In an aerial view, people celebrate the Fourth of July along the coast of La Jolla's Windansea Beach on a warm summer day on July 4, 2023 in San Diego, California
Mystery heatwave warms Pacific Ocean to new record
Temperatures have surged across a large area of the north Pacific - and scientists don't know exactly why.

1 day ago
A large cargo ship staked with pink, blue and white container ships sails from right to left through the picture, a small trail of white foam in the picture. 
Landmark deal to cut global shipping emissions in tatters after US pressure
President Trump intervened in the talks calling the deal a "green scam".

1 day ago
Image of an oil rig in the north sea - yellow stanchions reach down in the water from several platforms, against a blue sky and deeper blue sea
Is the Scottish government softening on oil and gas?
Has John Swinney shifted the Scottish government away from a "presumption against" new oil and gas?

1 day ago
John Swinney makes a speech outside a red brick building, flanked by two Zambians - a woman wearing a black t-shirt to the left of the shot and a male police officer to the right of the shot. Swinney is wearing a blue blazer, a white shirt and a bright purple tie.
Scotland has 'moral obligation' to support global south - Swinney
The first minister minister made the remarks during a visit to Zambia and Malawi, 20 years on from a historic co-operation agreement.